<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<article xml:id="projects.solms.training.courses.architecture.architecture" 
    xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" version="5.0">

    
    <info>
        <title>Request for Proposal</title>
        <subtitle>Generation of abstract WSDL contracts from an URDAD model</subtitle>
    </info>
    
    <section>
        <title>Problem Statement and Project Objectives</title>
        <para>
            Services Oriented Architectures (SOAs) assemble higher level services from lower level services. The services implementation are, 
            however, not directly coupled, but are decoupled through services contracts specified using the Web Services Description Language, WSDL. 
        </para>
        <para>
            URDAD, on the other hand, is a services-oriented analysis and design methodology which generates for a service
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    the services contract with specifications of the data structures for the inputs and outputs, pre- and post-conditions and quality requirements, as well
                    as the exception which will be raised when a particular precondition is not met.                    
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    how the service is orchestrated across lower level services.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
            The pre-conditions are the conditions under which the service may be refused, the post-conditions are the conditions which
            must hold after the service has been provided and quality requirements are non-functional requirements like scalability, performance etc.
        </para>
        <para>
            An URDAD model has been traditionally encoded in UML. However, the development of a domain-specific language for URDAD 
            with a metamodel and a concrete text syntax (with a graphical syntax to follow) simplifies the tasks for code and unit test
            generation.            
        </para>
        <para>
            In this project students will develop a transformation tool which transforms a services contract in a technology neutral design onto
            a WSDL encoding of the services contracts which references XML schemas which are themselves generated from the data structure
            specifications in the model.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Technical Requirement</title>
        <para>
            You should develop a progam which extracts a services contract from an URDAD model together with the data strucure specifications
            for the inputs and outputs and the exceptions associated with the pre-conditions for the service. specification with the pre and post
            conditions and generates a unit test in some technology which tests whether a given service provider (e.g. class or web service) fulfills the
            requirements for the services contract. In particular the test needs to test that, if all preconditions are met,
            the service is provided in such a way that all post-conditions hold once the service has been provided.
        </para>
        
        <para>
            The model specified which is currently specified using a concrete text syntax is typically stored in XMI 
            from which it can be processed using standard MDA tools like
            OCL for querying the model, QVT for model-to-model transformation and M2T for model-to-text transformations. The task is to specify the
            appropriate transformations to generate the unit test for the services contract which tests that all post-conditions are fulfilled and that the
            service is not refused (no exception thrown) if all preconditions are met.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Skills requirements</title>
        <para>
            For this project you wil need basic object-oriented skills and good programming skills. In addition you will have to
            be able to specify XML schemas and Web Services Description Language based services contracts. You will need
            to learn to use model querying tools as well as tools for model-to-model and model-to-text transformations.
             The difficulty level for this project is medium.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Expected Scope</title>
        <para>
            To be agreed upon with the client.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Required Deliverables</title>
        <para>
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    Project plan.
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    Test plan
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    Requirement specification
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    Architectural and design specifications
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    The transformations generating the XML schemas from the data structure specifications.
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    The transformations generating the WSDL from the service contract specification.
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    Source code and build scripts for the wrapping application.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
</article>    
